Update configurations docs (#1112)
juicedata/juicefs-csi-driver: docs/en/guide/configurations.md

Since CSI Driver v0.24, you can define and adjust settings in a ConfigMap called `juicefs-csi-driver-config`. Various settings are supported to customize mount pod & sidecar container, as well as settings for CSI Driver components. CM is updated dynamically: for mount pod customizations you no longer have to re-create PV & PVCs, and for CSI Driver settings there's no need to restart any CSI Driver components on update.

> ConfigMap is powerful and flexible, it will replace (or have already replaced) existing configuration methods that's been around in older versions of CSI Driver, below sections that's titled "deprecated" are all examples of outdated, less flexible methods and should be eschewed. **If something can be configured in ConfigMap, the ConfigMap items will have highest priority so you should always prefer the ConfigMap way, rather than practices available in legacy versions.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ConfigMap is powerful and flexible. It will replace (or have already replaced) existing configuration methods in older versions of CSI Driver.  Sections labeled "deprecated" provide examples of these outdated and less flexible approaches, which are no longer recommended. **If a setting is configurable via ConfigMap, it will take the highest priority within the ConfigMap. It is recommended to always use the ConfigMap method over any practices from legacy versions.**
```

:::info Update delay

> When ConfigMap changes, it won't take effect immediately, this is because CM mounted in a pod isn't updated in real-time, but synced periodically (see [Kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/#mounted-configmaps-are-updated-automatically)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When ConfigMap is updated, changes do not take effect immediately, because CM mounted in a pod is not updated in real time; instead, it is synced periodically (see [Kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/#mounted-configmaps-are-updated-automatically)).
```

If you wish for a force update, try adding a temporary label to CSI components:

```shell
kubectl -n kube-system annotate pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=juicefs-csi-driver useless-annotation=true
```

> After ConfigMap is updated across CSI components, subsequent mount pods will respect the new config while **existing mount pods will not magically update**. Depending on the specific changed item, users must re-create application pod or mount pod in order for changes to take effect. Read below sections for specifics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After ConfigMap is updated across CSI components, subsequent Mount Pods will apply the new configuration, but **existing Mount Pods will not automatically update**. Depending on what was changed, users must re-create the application pod or the Mount Pod for the changes to take effect. Refer to the sections below for more details.
```

:::

:::info Sidecar headsup

> If a customization item appears to be a valid sidecar setting, it'll work with sidecar. otherwise it'll be ignored. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a customization item appears to be a valid sidecar setting, it will work for the sidecar; otherwise, it will be ignored. For example:
```

> * `resources` is applicable to both mount pod and sidecar, hence it works with both;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `resources` applies to both the Mount Pod and the sidecar, so it works for both.
```

> * `custom-labels` adds customized labels to pod, since labels are an exclusive pod attribute, this setting is not applicable to sidecar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `custom-labels` adds customized labels to the pod. However, since labels are an exclusive pod attribute, this setting does not apply to the sidecar.
```

:::

> All supported fields are demonstrated in the [example config](https://github.com/juicedata/juicefs-csi-driver/blob/master/juicefs-csi-driver-config.example.yaml), and also introduced in detail in our docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All supported fields are demonstrated in the [example configuration](https://github.com/juicedata/juicefs-csi-driver/blob/master/juicefs-csi-driver-config.example.yaml) and are explained in detail in our documentation.
```

        # Clean cache when mount pod exits
        juicefs-clean-cache: "true"

>       # Define an environment variable for mount pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # Define an environment variable for the Mount Pod
```

      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 60
```

</details>

> All supported configuration items and PVC selectors are listed in the above snippet, but the behavior of each item is introduced in below sections, please read before use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All supported configuration items and PVC selectors are listed in the snippet above, but the behavior of each item is introduced in the sections below. Please read carefully before use.
```

### Custom mount image {#custom-image}

> #### Via Configmap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Via ConfigMap
```

> Minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.0. Upon modification, application pods or mount pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect. If you decide to re-create mount pod, be sure to enable [automatic mount point recovery](./configurations.md#automatic-mount-point-recovery) in advance, to avoid permanent loss of mount point within the application pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.0. Upon modification, application pods or Mount Pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect. If you decide to re-create Mount Pods, be sure to enable [automatic mount point recovery](./configurations.md#automatic-mount-point-recovery) in advance, to avoid permanent loss of mount point within the application pod.
```

```yaml {2-4}
globalConfig:
  mountPodPatch:
    - ceMountImage: juicedata/mount:ce-v1.2.0
      eeMountImage: juicedata/mount:ee-5.1.0-053aa0b
```

> If you need to use a customized image, or would like to find the latest available JuiceFS mount image, refer to [customize container image](./custom-image.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to use a custom image or would like to find the latest available JuiceFS mount image, refer to [customize container image](./custom-image.md).
```

> ### Environment variable {#custom-env}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Environment variables {#custom-env}
```

> #### Via Configmap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Via ConfigMap
```

> Minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.5. Upon modification, application pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.5. Upon modification, application pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect.
```

```yaml {2-6}
  mountPodPatch:
    - env:
      - name: DEMO_GREETING
        value: "Hello from the environment"
      - name: DEMO_FAREWELL
        value: "Such a sweet sorrow"
```

#### Via Secret

```yaml {11}
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: juicefs-secret
  namespace: default
  labels:
    # Add this label to enable secret validation
    juicefs.com/validate-secret: "true"
type: Opaque
stringData:
  envs: '{"BASE_URL": "http://10.0.0.1:8080/static"}'
```

### Resource definition {#custom-resources}

> #### Via Configmap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Via ConfigMap
```

> Minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.0. Upon modification, application pods or mount pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect. If you decide to re-create mount pod, be sure to enable [automatic mount point recovery](./configurations.md#automatic-mount-point-recovery) in advance, to avoid permanent loss of mount point within the application pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.0. Upon modification, application pods or Mount Pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect. If you decide to re-create Mount Pods, be sure to enable [automatic mount point recovery](./configurations.md#automatic-mount-point-recovery) in advance, to avoid permanent loss of mount point within the application pod.
```

```yaml {2-5}
  mountPodPatch:
  - resources:
      requests:
        cpu: 100m
        memory: 512Mi
```

> Read [resource optimization](./resource-optimization.md) to learn how to properly set resource requests & limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read [resource optimization](./resource-optimization.md) to learn how to properly set resource requests and limits.
```

### Mount options {#mount-options}

> Every JuiceFS mount point is created by a `juicefs mount` command, and within the CSI Driver system, `mountOptions` handles all mount options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each JuiceFS mount point is created by the `juicefs mount` command, and within the CSI Driver system, `mountOptions` manages all mount options.
```

> `mountOptions` supports both JuiceFS mount options and FUSE options. Keep in mind that although FUSE options is specified using -o when using JuiceFS command line, the -o is to be omitted inside CSI mountOptions, just append each option directly in the YAML list. For a mount command example like below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mountOptions` supports both JuiceFS mount options and FUSE options. Note that although FUSE options are specified with `-o` in the JuiceFS command line, you must omit `-o` inside CSI `mountOptions` and just append each option directly in the YAML list. For example, a mount command like this:
```

```shell
juicefs mount ... --cache-size=204800 -o writeback_cache,debug
```

> Translated to CSI `mountOptions`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It would translate to CSI `mountOptions` as follows:
```

```yaml
mountOptions:
  # JuiceFS mount options
  - cache-size=204800
  # Extra FUSE options
  - writeback_cache
  - debug
```

:::tip

> Mount options are different between Community Edition and Cloud Service, see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mount options are different between the Community Edition and Cloud Service. See:
```

- [Community Edition](https://juicefs.com/docs/community/command_reference#mount)
- [Cloud Service](https://juicefs.com/docs/cloud/reference/commands_reference/#mount)
:::

#### Via ConfigMap

> Minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.7. Upon modification, application pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.7. Upon modification, application pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect.
```

> Items inside ConfigMap comes with the highest priority, mount options defined in CM will recursively overwrite those defined in PV. So in order to avoid confusion, please migrate all mount options towards ConfigMap and refrain from using PV-level `mountOptions`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Items inside ConfigMap comes with the highest priority, and mount options defined in CM will recursively overwrite those defined in PV. To avoid confusion, please migrate all mount options to ConfigMap and avoid using PV-level `mountOptions`.
```

By using `pvcSelector`, you can control mount options for multiple PVCs.

```yaml
  mountPodPatch:
    - pvcSelector:
        matchLabels:
          # Applies to all PVCs with this label
          need-update-options: "true"
      mountOptions:
        - writeback
        - cache-size=204800
```

#### Via PV definition (deprecated) {#static-mount-options}

> After modifying the mount options for existing PVs, you need to perform a rolling upgrade or re-create the application pod, so that CSI Driver starts re-create the mount pod for the changes to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After modifying the mount options for existing PVs, a rolling upgrade or re-creation of the application pod is required to apply the changes. This ensures CSI Driver re-creates the Mount Pod for the changes to take effect.
```

```yaml {8-9}
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: juicefs-pv
  labels:
    juicefs-name: ten-pb-fs
spec:
  mountOptions:
    - cache-size=204800
  ...
```

#### Via StorageClass definition (deprecated) {#dynamic-mount-options}

> Customize mount options in `StorageClass` definition. If you need to use different mount options for different applications, you'll need to create multiple `StorageClass`, each with different mount options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize mount options in `StorageClass` definition. If different applications require different mount options, create multiple `StorageClass`, each with its own mount options.
```

> Due to StorageClass being the template used for creating PVs, **modifying mount options in StorageClass will not affect existing PVs**, if you need to adjust mount options for dynamic provisioning, you'll have to delete existing PVCs, or [directly modify mount options in existing PVs](#static-mount-options).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since StorageClass serves as a template for creating PVs, **modifying mount options in StorageClass will not affect existing PVs**. If you need to adjust mount options for dynamic provisioning, you have to delete existing PVCs, or [directly modify mount options in existing PVs](#static-mount-options).
```

```yaml {6-7}
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: juicefs-sc
provisioner: csi.juicefs.com
mountOptions:
  - cache-size=204800
parameters:
  ...
```

### Health check & pod lifecycle {#custom-probe-lifecycle}

> Minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.0. Upon modification, application pods or mount pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect. If you decide to re-create mount pod, be sure to enable [automatic mount point recovery](./configurations.md#automatic-mount-point-recovery) in advance, to avoid permanent loss of mount point within the application pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.0. Upon modification, application pods or Mount Pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect. If you decide to re-create Mount Pods, ensure that [automatic mount point recovery](./configurations.md#automatic-mount-point-recovery) is enabled to prevent the permanent loss of the mount point within the application pod.
```

Targeted scenarios:

> - Use `readinessProbe` to set up mount pod healthchecking, for monitoring and alerting;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `readinessProbe` to set up health checks for the Mount Pod, supporting monitoring and alerting.
```

> - Customize `preStop` in sidecars to guarantee mount container exit order (mount container exit after application container), refer to [sidecar recommendations](../administration/going-production.md#sidecar) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Customize `preStop` in sidecars to ensure the mount container exits after the application container. Refer to [sidecar recommendations](../administration/going-production.md#sidecar) for details.
```

```yaml
  - pvcSelector:
      matchLabels:
        custom-probe: "true"
    readinessProbe:
      exec:
        command:
        - stat
        - ${MOUNT_POINT}/${SUB_PATH}
      failureThreshold: 3
      initialDelaySeconds: 10
      periodSeconds: 5
      successThreshold: 1
```

### Mount extra volumes {#custom-volumes}

Targeted scenarios:

> - Some object storage providers (like Google Cloud Storage) requires extra credential files for authentication, this means you'll have to create a separate Secret to store these files, and reference it in volume credentials (JuiceFS-secret in below examples), so that CSI Driver will mount these files into the mount pod. The relevant environment variable needs to be added to specify the added files for authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Some object storage providers (like Google Cloud Storage) require extra credential files for authentication. This means you will have to create a separate Secret to store these files and reference it in volume credentials (JuiceFS-secret in below examples), so that CSI Driver will mount these files into the mount pod. The relevant environment variable needs to be added to specify the added files for authentication.
```

- JuiceFS Enterprise Edition supports [shared block storage device](https://juicefs.com/docs/cloud/guide/block-device), which can be used as cache storage or permanent data storage.

#### Via ConfigMap

> Minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.7. Upon modification, application pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum required version is CSI Driver v0.24.7. Upon modification, application pods need to be re-created for changes to take effect.
```

```yaml

>   # mount some volumes to the mount pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Mount some volumes to the Mount Pod
```

  - pvcSelector:
      matchLabels:
        need-block-device: "true"
    volumeDevices:
      - name: block-devices
        devicePath: /dev/sda1
    volumes:
      - name: block-devices
        persistentVolumeClaim:
          claimName: block-pv
  - pvcSelector:
      matchLabels:
        need-mount-secret: "true"
    volumeMounts:
      - name: config-1
        mountPath: /root/.config/gcloud
    volumes:
    - name: gc-secret
      secret:
        secretName: gc-secret
        defaultMode: 420
```

#### Via secret

> JuiceFS Secret only supports configuring extra secret mounts within the `configs` field, shared block device mount are not supported here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JuiceFS Secret only supports configuring extra secret mounts within the `configs` field. Shared block device mounts are not supported here.
```

```yaml {8-9}
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: juicefs-secret
type: Opaque
stringData:
  ...

>   # Set Secret name and mount directory in configs, this mounts the whole Secret into specified directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Set Secret name and mount directory in configs. This mounts the whole Secret into the specified directory
```

  configs: "{gc-secret: /root/.config/gcloud}"
```

### Other features

> Many features is closely relevant to other topics, read more in their respective chapter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many features are closely relevant to other topics. For more information:
```

```yaml
  # mount some volumes to the mount pod
  - pvcSelector:
      matchLabels:
        need-block-device: "true"
    volumeDevices:
      - name: block-devices
        devicePath: /dev/sda1
    volumes:
      - name: block-devices
        persistentVolumeClaim:
          claimName: block-pv
  - pvcSelector:
      matchLabels:
        need-mount-secret: "true"
    volumeMounts:
      - name: config-1
        mountPath: /root/.config/gcloud
    volumes:
    - name: gc-secret
      secret:
        secretName: gc-secret
        defaultMode: 420
```

#### Via secret

JuiceFS Secret only supports configuring extra secret mounts within the `configs` field, shared block device mount are not supported here.

```yaml {8-9}
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: juicefs-secret
type: Opaque
stringData:
  ...
  # Set Secret name and mount directory in configs, this mounts the whole Secret into specified directory
  configs: "{gc-secret: /root/.config/gcloud}"
```

### Other features

Many features is closely relevant to other topics, read more in their respective chapter:

> * Configure delayed deletion for mount pods, to save startup overhead when application pod lifecycles are short. read [delayed deletion](./resource-optimization.md#delayed-mount-pod-deletion);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure delayed deletion for Mount Pods to reduce startup overhead in short application pod lifecycles. read [delayed deletion](./resource-optimization.md#delayed-mount-pod-deletion).
```

> * Clean cache upon mount pod exit, refer to [cache cleanup](./resource-optimization.md#clean-cache-when-mount-pod-exits).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Clean cache upon mount pod exit. See [cache cleanup](./resource-optimization.md#clean-cache-when-mount-pod-exits).
```
